Add documentation for Analyze Experiment MCP/CLI command (#17978)
mlflow/mlflow: docs/docs/genai/eval-monitor/insights/analyze-experiment.mdx

import Tabs from "@theme/Tabs"
import TabItem from "@theme/TabItem"
import { MessageSquare, Target, BarChart3, ExternalLink, Bot, Users, CheckCircle, TrendingUp, Database, Book, Rocket, Scale } from "lucide-react";

> # Analyze Experiment

Reviewer: @nsthorat Wondering if there's potentially a more eye-catching / attention-grabbing name to use in the docs sidebar. Something that makes it 100% obvious that this feature automatically identifies the most important issues and creates a prioritized plan for which ones to address next

> Automatically analyze traces in your MLflow experiments to identify operational issues, quality problems, and performance patterns. The Analyze Experiment tool uses hypothesis-driven analysis to systematically examine your GenAI application's behavior and generate comprehensive markdown reports.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Automatically analyze traces in your MLflow experiments to find operational issues, quality problems, and performance patterns. The Analyze Experiment tool uses hypothesis-driven analysis to systematically examine your GenAI application's behavior, identify the most important problems, and create a plan for addressing them in the form of a comprehensive markdown report.
```

> ## Overview

Reviewer 2: Might want to look to convert this section to using the FeatureHighlights component (title + description cards with simple icons) to conform to the "Why is this important for me to look at" section of many of the GenAI docs

The Analyze Experiment command examines traces logged in an MLflow experiment to automatically discover:

- **Operational Issues**: Errors, timeouts, rate limiting, authentication failures, and performance bottlenecks
- **Quality Issues**: Overly verbose responses, inconsistent outputs, repetitive content, and inappropriate response formats
- **Success Patterns**: What's working well, effective tool usage, and high-quality interactions
- **Performance Metrics**: Latency distributions, success rates, and error patterns

The tool generates a detailed markdown report with specific trace examples, quantitative evidence, and actionable recommendations for improvement.

## Usage

The Analyze Experiment functionality is available through two methods:

> <Tabs>

Reviewer 2: Let's use the `TabsWrapper` component around Tabs

Reviewer 2: And we can also use the `TabItem` sections instead of putting md headers in the tab contents

<TabItem value="mcp" label="MCP" default>

### Using MCP

If you have MLflow's MCP server configured, you can simply run:

> ```

Reviewer 2: don't forget language indicator for formatting `bash`

Author: done

/analyze-experiment
```

### Prerequisites
- MLflow MCP server (see [MCP setup guide](/genai/mcp/))
- A coding agent with MCP support (e.g., Claude Code, Cursor, Windsurf, etc.) configured to connect to MLflow MCP server
- MLflow experiment with logged traces

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="cli" label="CLI">

### Using CLI

Run the analyze experiment command directly:

```bash
mlflow ai-commands genai/analyze-experiment
```

### Prerequisites
- A coding agent with MCP support (e.g., Claude Code, Cursor, Windsurf, etc.)
- MLflow 3.4 or later: `pip install mlflow>=3.4`
- Access to MLflow tracking server with logged traces

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Analysis Workflow

> 

Reviewer 2: It would be nice to show a visual component to the devloop here. Check out the `DAGLoop` component :)

### 1. Setup and Authentication

The tool will ask you to configure authentication:

> - **Databricks**: Provide workspace URL and personal access token, or use a Databricks CLI profile

Reviewer 2: Each of the sections here might look a little repeated. Can some of the elements be broken up and rendered as something other than bulleted lists? Take a look at the tracing docs or the scorers docs to see examples to get inspiration from
